---
layout: default
title: 2020-06-28
date: 2020-06-28
categories: [blog]
exerpt: What does it all mean?
last_modified_at: 2020-06-28 20:17 -6
---
# <a href="https://makeameme.org/meme/yarr-i-dont">Yarr, I don't know what I'm doing...</a>

So it turns out that writing is one of the first things to go when you get busy. Am I busy? Sort of. I don't get much free time if I don't sacrifice sleep. Anyway, it's been a while so I am writing something. Anything.

I have been intriuged lately with the idea of writing essays since I seem to suck at fiction writing. The topic I've been trying to kick the tires on is the idea of a post-money society. The fungability of cash makes it easy for wealth to pool at the top. What if we returned to a system of reputation being enough to live from. I think I have a theoretical model which would allow a transition from our current society to one based enitrely on a reputation economy. Look, this is a pipe dream but thinking about it is interesting to me.

In other news, it has been tough, not being able to get home to see my family. I miss them and I miss my friends.

It's been tough staying healthy. I find I'm wiped by the end of the day. Excercise and stretching is NOT happening. I get some exercise just by being a home owner and father at this time of year but it's not enough (better than the Winter!). I get sad when I remember going for runs. Or just going to gym for a hour. I had so much time. It seems crazy to think of doing that now. Maybe things will get better as time goes on.

That's all I have time for. 

